feat(secret-manager): add tutorial on how to use scaleway secret mana… (#1325)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/external-secrets/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: Deploying External secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Deploying External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule
```

>   description: Learn how to deploy External Secret on Kubernetes Kapsule integrated with Scaleway Secret Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Learn how to deploy External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule integrated with Scaleway Secret Manager
```

content:

>   h1: Deploying External secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Deploying External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule
```

>   paragraph: Learn how to deploy External secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule integrated with Scaleway Secret Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: Learn how to deploy External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule integrated with Scaleway Secret Manager
```

> tags: Kapsule cluster compute Kubernetes External secrets Scaleway secret manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: kapsule-cluster kubernetes external-secrets secret-management
```

categories:
  - containers
  - kubernetes
  - secrets
  - security
dates:

>   validation: 2023-17-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  validation: 2023-02-21
```

>   posted: 2022-17-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  posted: 2023-02-21
```

---

## External Secrets - Overview

> [External Secrets](https://external-secrets.io) Is a Kubernetes operator allowing you to handle the lifecycle of secrets from external providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[External Secrets](https://external-secrets.io) is a Kubernetes operator that allows you to manage the lifecycle of your secrets from external providers.
```

In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy External Secrets and its services on [Kubernetes Kapsule](/containers/kubernetes/concepts/#kubernetes-kapsule), the managed Kubernetes service from Scaleway.

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
  - You have [created a Kapsule cluster](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/)

>   - [kubectl](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/connect-cluster-kubectl/) is working on your machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have configured [kubectl](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/connect-cluster-kubectl/)
```

>   - `helm`, the Kubernetes [package manager](https://helm.sh/), is installed on your local machine (version 3.2+)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have installed `helm`, the Kubernetes [package manager](https://helm.sh/), on your local machine (version 3.2 or latest)
```

</Message>

## Preparing the Kubernetes Kapsule Cluster

> 1. Ensure you are connected to your cluster and that `kubectl` and `helm` are installed on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you are connected to your cluster and that `kubectl` and `helm` are installed on your local machine.
```

> 2. Add the External Secrets Helm repo update it:

Reviewer 2: Il doit manquer un "and"

> 2. Add the External Secrets Helm repo update it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the External Secrets helm repo and update it using the following command:
```

    ```
    $ helm repo add external-secrets https://charts.external-secrets.io
    $ helm repo update
    ```

## Deploying External Secrets

> To automatically install and manage the CRDs as part of your Helm release, you must add the --set installCRDs=true flag to your Helm installation command. Uncomment the relevant line in the next steps to enable this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To automatically install and manage the CRDs as part of your Helm release, you must add the `--set installCRDs=true` flag to your Helm installation command. Uncomment the relevant line in the next steps to enable this.
```

```
$ helm install external-secrets \
   external-secrets/external-secrets \
    -n external-secrets \
    --create-namespace \
    --set image.repository=rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/external-secrets/external-secrets \
    --set image.tag=v1
  # --set installCRDs=true
```

> ## Create a secret containing your SCW credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a secret containing your Scaleway's API key information
```

```
$ echo -n 'KEYID' > ./access-key
$ echo -n 'SECRETKEY' > ./secret-access-key
$ kubectl create secret generic scwsm-secret --from-file=./access-key --from-file=./secret-access-key
```
## Create your first SecretStore

> Secret Manager is a regionalized product so you'll need to create a secret store by region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secret Manager is a regionalized product so you will need to create a secret store by region.
```

```
---
apiVersion: external-secrets.io/v1beta1
kind: SecretStore
metadata:
  name: secret-store
  namespace: default
spec:
  provider:
    scaleway:
      region: <REGION>
      projectId: <YOUR_PROJECT_UUID>
      accessKey:
        secretRef:
          name: scwsm-secret
          key: secret-access-key
      secretKey:
        secretRef:
          name: scwsm-secret
          key: access-key
```

## Create your first ExternalSecret

```
---
apiVersion: external-secrets.io/v1beta1
kind: ExternalSecret
metadata:
    name: secret
    namespace: default
spec:
    refreshInterval: 20s
    secretStoreRef:
        kind: SecretStore
        name: secret-store
    data:
      - secretKey: password  # key in the kubernetes secret
        remoteRef:
          key: id:<SECRET_ID in the secret store>

>           version: latest

Reviewer 2: Il faudrait peut être donner latest_enabled en exemple ?

```

## Uninstalling

> Before continuing, ensure that all external-secret resources that have been created by users have been deleted. You can check for any existing resources with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have deleted all external-secret resources you might have created beforehand. You can check for any existing resources with the following command:
```

```

> $ kubectl get SecretStores,ClusterSecretStores,ExternalSecrets --all-namespaces

Reviewer 2: Il y a d'autres types de resources (d'après https://external-secrets.io/v0.7.2/api/components/):
- ClusterExternalSecret
- PushSecret

---
meta:
  title: Deploying External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule
  description: Learn how to deploy External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule integrated with Scaleway Secret Manager
content:
  h1: Deploying External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule
  paragraph: Learn how to deploy External Secrets on Kubernetes Kapsule integrated with Scaleway Secret Manager
tags: kapsule-cluster kubernetes external-secrets secret-management
categories:
  - containers
  - kubernetes

>   - secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we don't have this category :)

>   - security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: same comment as above

In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy External Secrets and its services on [Kubernetes Kapsule](/containers/kubernetes/concepts/#kubernetes-kapsule), the managed Kubernetes service from Scaleway.

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
  - You have [created a Kapsule cluster](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/)
  - You have configured [kubectl](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/connect-cluster-kubectl/)
  - You have installed `helm`, the Kubernetes [package manager](https://helm.sh/), on your local machine (version 3.2 or latest)
</Message>

## Preparing the Kubernetes Kapsule Cluster

1. Make sure you are connected to your cluster and that `kubectl` and `helm` are installed on your local machine.
2. Add the External Secrets Helm repo and update it:
    ```
    $ helm repo add external-secrets https://charts.external-secrets.io
    $ helm repo update
    ```

## Deploying External Secrets
```

> $ helm upgrade --install external-secrets  external-secrets/external-secrets

Reviewer 2: Il faudrait rajouter les antislash en fin de ligne pour faciliter le copier-coller

    -n external-secrets \
    --create-namespace \
    --set image.repository=rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/external-secrets/external-secrets \
    --set image.tag=v1 \
    --set certController.image.repository=rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/external-secrets/external-secrets \
    --set certController.image.tag=v1 \
    --set webhook.image.repository=rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/external-secrets/external-secrets \
    --set webhook.image.tag=v1
```

> The CRD's can only be installed for now with the corresponding git branch:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CRDs can only be installed for now with the corresponding git branch:
```

```
$ git clone -b feature/scaleway-provider git@github.com:azert9/external-secrets.git
$ cd external-secrets

> $ make crds-install

Reviewer 2: `crds-install` -> `crds.install`

```

> ## Create a secret containing your Scaleway's API key information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Create a secret containing your Scaleway API key information
```
